[Music]
so here's the answer to your burning
question did they really find a
Megalodon in the Mariana Trench reports
of Megalodon sightings can be found on
many different websites science tells us
that Megalodon sharks are extinct but
could they still be alive in the deepest
parts of the ocean
humans are fascinated by sharks
the bigger the shark is the stronger the
pool we feel to learn more about them
given that Megalodon was a massive shark
with noticeable feeding habits we guess
that if it were still roaming the oceans
it would probably have been spotted by
someone by now but perhaps not if it
lived in the deepest place on earth the
Mariana Trench let's see if the claims
we've been hearing could be true but
Before we jump into solving this mystery
make sure you click the subscribe button
and turn on notifications now you'll be
one of the first bright ciders to watch
our new videos now there are plenty of
skeptics out there who doubt that
Megalodon existed at all but we do know
that the Megalodon shark roamed the
oceans as early as 23 million years ago
and we have their fossils to prove their
existence when people first encountered
Megalodon teeth they believed them to be
rocks that had made their way to earth
from the moon but years later naturalist
attributed the fossilized teeth to
sharks and then to Megalodon Megalodon
was the biggest shark to terrorize the
ocean and it is thought to have gone
extinct 2.6 million years ago the name
Megalodon means big bucks
no no it's big tooth most of the
recovered Megalodon fossil teeth had
been four to five inches but there are a
few enormous teeth that are over seven
inches did you know that Megalodon
was more powerful than a Tyrannosaurus
rexes computer simulations estimate
megalodons bite at 24 to 40,000 pounds
of force with those stats we'd like to
believe that Megalodon could survive
anything but why do we believe that
Megalodon could still be around as this
sort of situation happened before the
answer is yes
the giant squid seemed to be a mythical
creature or thought to be extinct
scientists eventually learned of its
existence from the bodies that washed
ashore and the marks they'd left on
whales the world finally got a glimpse
of the giant squid in 2006 when Japanese
researchers caught one on camera at 59
feet and weighing nearly a ton the giant
squid is the biggest invertebrate on
earth that some calamari so if the giant
squid was hiding from human eyes for
hundreds of years who's to say that
Megalodon couldn't be out there as well
well there are two big factors to
remember if we mean to figure out if a
Megalodon shark could still be alive
first let's explore Megalodon sighs do
you remember we mentioned that a
megalodons bite was stronger than a T
Rexes we tend to think of the
Tyrannosaurus Rex is a massive creature
but if you put a t-rex next to Megalodon
it might give you some perspective on
how big Megalodon actually was
megalodons could grow up to 60 feet
three times the size of a t-rex so you'd
know who'd win a fight between these two
if it were in the water if it's on dry
land I'm betting on the t-rex
now let's travel east all the way to the
Mariana Islands if we venture a little
beyond them farther into the Pacific
Ocean we find the Mariana Trench the
deepest part of the ocean and the
deepest spot on earth the Mariana Trench
is nearly seven miles deep and measures
more than 1,500 miles long and 43 miles
wide to put the depth into perspective
if you were to put Mount Everest into
the Mariana Trench the top would still
be sticking out to put the length into
perspective in fifteen hundred miles you
could fit all the states between Florida
and Massachusetts fifteen hundred miles
is also the distance between Madrid in
Spain and Copenhagen in Denmark given
the size of the Mariana Trench do you
think Megalodon could be living there
without people knowing we certainly
think so now there are other elements to
consider as well let's explore the
conditions of life in the Mariana Trench
could life even exist in there we know
that the Mariana Trench is a place in
constant darkness with a pressure of up
to eight tons per square inch there are
vents on the ocean floor that released
hydrogen sulfide and other minerals at a
temperature of 572 degrees Fahrenheit
the deepest part of the Mariana Trench
is called challenger deep according to a
National Geographic report there are
only three people who have descended
into challenger deep the first two
people to have reached Challenger Deep
spotted a fish and prove that fish could
exist in the greatest depths of the
ocean now we know there are thousands of
species of invertebrates and fish the
Mariana Trench holds odd translucent
animals called pollo 'the Orient's new
species of jellyfish ghostly white
octopuses and many others and some of
those species have a curiously long life
could Megalodon live in those conditions
if there was a Megalodon shark living
down there it might not look how we
imagined them to be to survive in the
Mariana Trench Megalodon would have had
to adapt to the living conditions and
evolve it would also have to switch its
diet from whales dolphins sea lions and
sea cows to whatever organisms reside in
the Mariana Trench and hope that it
could find and eat its usual 2500 pounds
of food per day if Megalodon were to
evolve in the Mariana Trench it's easy
to imagine it as a massive
bioluminescent shark that can live for
hundreds of years and feed off
translucent organisms but that's just
speculation in 1995 filmmaker James
Cameron did 12 man's submersible dives
to the wreck of Titanic to collect
samples and record footage for what
would become his blockbuster film
familiar with underwater expeditions in
2012 he became one of three people to
reach challenger deep in the Mariana
Trench according to the United Nations
there are seven point six billion people
in the world today and only three of
them have made it to the deepest point
on earth the reality is that with so
little research it is impossible to know
what lies in the depths of the Mariana
Trench maybe we can ask James Cameron
and his team if he happened to see a
Megalodon tail swoosh bye while he was
down there you might keep hearing
reports of megalodons in the Mariana
Trench
but don't head out there to find if the
reports are true the Mariana Trench
is now a u.s. protected zone and
research requests must go through the US
Fish and Wildlife Service and the
Federated States of Micronesia still
weather reports of megalodons living in
the Mariana Trench are real or not there
are plenty of people out there who would
like to believe it's real
so do you think megalodons could still
be alive
if they had evolved in the Mariana
Trench what do you think that would look
like now share your thoughts with us in
the comment section and don't forget to
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]
you